[
{"id":"s01","title":"Town's giant pumpkin smashes state record at fall fair","summary":"A retired schoolteacher's 2,412-pound pumpkin took the blue ribbon at the county fair this weekend, edging out last year's champion by a hair. The grower credits an experimental compost blend and a summer of relentless watering that kept the vine going through a punishing heat wave. Organizers say weekend attendance hit a ten-year high as families lined up for photos beside the enormous gourd, which will be carved into a boat for the annual regatta on the millpond next month."},
{"id":"s02","title":"Local library launches 'read to a therapy dog' program for kids","summary":"The downtown branch has paired a trio of certified golden retrievers with young readers who are nervous about reading aloud in front of others. Librarians report that reluctant readers grow visibly calmer with a patient, non-judgmental dog listening beside them on the rug. The eight-week pilot filled every slot within two days, and a waitlist is already forming for the spring session. Staff hope to add a second afternoon block if enough volunteer handlers sign up."},
{"id":"s03","title":"Fatal multi-car pileup closes interstate for six hours","summary":"At least four people were killed and eleven injured in a chain-reaction crash during dense morning fog on the northbound interstate just outside the city limits. State troopers said low visibility and slick pavement were likely factors, and the highway remained shut through the afternoon as crews cleared twisted wreckage and spilled cargo. Grief counselors were dispatched to a nearby high school after officials confirmed two of the dead were students. An investigation into the exact sequence of the collision is ongoing."},
{"id":"s04","title":"City's oldest diner celebrates seventy-five years of pancakes","summary":"The chrome-trimmed diner on Fifth Street marked its seventy-fifth anniversary by serving its original 1951 breakfast at 1951 prices for one busy morning. Regulars lined up before dawn, some wearing vintage clothing for the occasion, and the founder's granddaughter, now the owner, flipped the ceremonial first pancake to a round of applause. The diner still uses the same buttermilk recipe scrawled on a grease-spotted card tucked behind the register, and the owner insists it will never change."},
{"id":"s05","title":"Amateur astronomer photographs rare comet from backyard","summary":"A software engineer with a modest telescope captured a striking image of a long-period comet during its closest approach in decades, catching a faint blue ion tail against a field of stars. The photo, stacked from hundreds of exposures over three bitterly cold nights, drew praise from a regional astronomy club that has invited him to speak at its next meeting. The comet will not return for roughly four thousand years, making the shot a genuine once-in-a-lifetime capture that he plans to print at wall size."},
{"id":"s06","title":"Warehouse fire kills two workers at packaging plant","summary":"A late-night blaze tore through a cardboard packaging facility on the industrial edge of town, killing two employees and sending three others to the hospital with serious burns. Firefighters battled the flames for hours as stacked stored materials fueled the fire and thick smoke drifted over neighboring streets. Investigators are examining whether faulty wiring in an older section of the building was to blame, and the company has suspended operations while inspectors comb the site. Grief support has been offered to the plant's remaining staff."},
{"id":"s07","title":"Middle schoolers build award-winning recycling robot","summary":"A team of seventh graders took top honors at a regional engineering contest with a robot that sorts recyclables by material using cheap sensors and a repurposed webcam. The students coded the sorting logic themselves over a semester of lunch-hour meetings, debugging jams and misreads through dozens of trial runs. Their teacher says a local manufacturer has offered to mentor the team ahead of the state finals and to donate parts for a faster second prototype. The students say they want to place a working unit in the school cafeteria."},
{"id":"s08","title":"Beloved neighborhood cat elected honorary mayor of small town","summary":"A tuxedo cat named Winston who has roamed the same main street for a decade was named honorary mayor in a lighthearted fundraiser that drew hundreds of one-dollar votes from residents and visitors alike. Proceeds go to the local animal shelter, which reported its best fundraising week in years and cleared a backlog of overdue vet bills. Winston attended the swearing-in ceremony in a tiny knitted sash, surveyed the crowd with regal indifference, and promptly fell asleep on the podium."},
{"id":"s09","title":"Flash flooding sweeps through valley, dozens missing","summary":"Torrential overnight rain sent a wall of water through a mountain valley, destroying homes and washing out the only paved road connecting several isolated hamlets. Emergency crews have confirmed multiple deaths and say dozens of residents remain unaccounted for as the water slowly recedes. Rescue helicopters were grounded for hours by low cloud, complicating the search for survivors clinging to rooftops and higher ground. Regional authorities have declared a state of emergency and appealed for boats and volunteers."},
{"id":"s10","title":"Retiree knits sweaters for every penguin at wildlife rescue","summary":"An eighty-two-year-old former nurse has hand-knitted dozens of tiny wool sweaters for penguins recovering from an oil spill at a coastal rescue center. The snug garments stop the distressed birds from preening oil-soaked feathers before staff can safely clean them, a small intervention that rescuers say measurably improves survival rates. Her pattern has since been shared with rescue centers on three continents, and she has recruited a knitting circle at her retirement home to keep up with demand."},
{"id":"s11","title":"High school marching band wins national championship","summary":"After a season of six-a.m. practices in all weather, the small-town marching band clinched a national title with a routine themed around a thunderstorm, complete with a rippling silver flag effect and a drumline that mimicked rolling thunder. Parents chartered three buses to cheer them on and packed the stands with homemade banners. The director, in his final year before retirement, called it the proudest moment of a thirty-year career and dedicated the win to the students who show up early every single morning."},
{"id":"s12","title":"Earthquake levels historic district, casualties feared high","summary":"A powerful earthquake struck near the regional capital before dawn, collapsing several older masonry buildings in the historic quarter and buckling roads across the old town. Officials fear a significant death toll as rescuers dig through rubble by hand and with sniffer dogs, calling for silence at intervals to listen for survivors. Aftershocks have hampered the response and forced thousands of frightened residents to spend the night in open squares and parks, wrapped in blankets handed out by aid workers."},
{"id":"s13","title":"Baker sets world record for longest baguette in park","summary":"A team of bakers rolled out a 460-foot baguette along a park promenade, besting the previous record by several feet under the watchful eye of an official adjudicator with a measuring wheel. The bread was sliced on the spot and handed out free to the cheering crowd, with the leftovers boxed up and donated to a food bank across town. The head baker joked that the hardest part was not the dough but finding a portable oven long enough, which they eventually welded together from three units."},
{"id":"s14","title":"Community garden transforms vacant lot into pollinator haven","summary":"Neighbors turned a weed-choked, litter-strewn vacant lot into a thriving garden buzzing with bees and butterflies over a single growing season of weekend work parties. The all-volunteer effort now supplies fresh produce to two nearby food pantries and hosts a Saturday morning kids' planting club. City officials are studying the project as a template for a dozen other neglected lots across the district, and a hardware chain has offered to donate tools for the next site."},
{"id":"s15","title":"Ferry capsizes in storm, rescue operation underway","summary":"A crowded passenger ferry capsized in rough seas during a sudden squall, throwing scores of people into the cold water within sight of the harbor. Coast guard vessels and nearby fishing boats have pulled many survivors from the waves, but authorities confirm several fatalities and say the final count remains uncertain as darkness falls. Weather continues to hamper the search, and families have gathered at the terminal awaiting word. An inquiry into whether the vessel was overloaded has already been announced."},
{"id":"s16","title":"Town clock finally fixed after a decade stuck at noon","summary":"The clock atop the old town hall, frozen at twelve o'clock since a lightning strike a decade ago, is ticking again thanks to a retired clockmaker who volunteered six months of his time and machined several replacement gears by hand. A small crowd counted down in the square as the great hands moved for the first time in years, and a few longtime residents admitted to tearing up. The mayor declared an unofficial holiday, rang the restored bell, and thanked the clockmaker with a key to the city."},
{"id":"s17","title":"Golden retriever reunited with family after two years lost","summary":"A routine microchip scan at a shelter three states away reunited a golden retriever with the family that lost him during a chaotic cross-country move two years ago. The tearful reunion in the shelter lobby, captured on a volunteer's phone, has warmed hearts across the region and racked up millions of views. Veterinarians say the dog is healthy despite his long absence and, by all accounts, utterly thrilled to be home, refusing to let the children out of his sight since."},
{"id":"s18","title":"Explosion at chemical plant forces mass evacuation","summary":"A blast at a chemical processing plant sent a towering plume of smoke over the surrounding suburbs and forced the evacuation of thousands of residents in the middle of the night. At least one worker is confirmed dead and several others are in critical condition with burns and inhalation injuries. Environmental teams are monitoring air and water quality downwind as investigators try to determine what triggered the explosion, and residents have been warned to keep windows shut until further notice."},
{"id":"s19","title":"Grandmother's secret sauce recipe wins state chili cook-off","summary":"A first-time entrant took the grand prize at the state chili cook-off with a recipe she says her grandmother guarded jealously for fifty years and only revealed on her deathbed. She finally agreed to share most of it with the judges, on the strict condition that one ingredient stays secret to the grave. The win came with a trophy, a year of free groceries, and a coveted spot on next year's judging panel, which she says terrifies her more than competing ever did."},
{"id":"s20","title":"Volunteers plant ten thousand trees along riverbank in a day","summary":"Hundreds of volunteers of all ages planted ten thousand native saplings along an eroded stretch of riverbank in a single crisp Saturday, exceeding the organizers' ambitious goal well before noon. The trees are expected to stabilize the crumbling banks, shade the water for spawning fish, and eventually form a shaded walking trail. A local nursery donated the saplings and pledged twice as many for next year, while a coffee cart kept the diggers caffeinated from sunrise onward."},
{"id":"s21","title":"Kids' lemonade stand raises thousands for children's hospital","summary":"What began as a modest curbside lemonade stand run by two nine-year-olds grew into a sprawling neighborhood event that raised several thousand dollars for the children's hospital where one of them was once a long-term patient. Word spread online, and cars lined up around the block for hours as volunteers squeezed lemons by the crateful and neighbors donated cookies. The hospital, moved by the gesture, plans to name a playroom in the pair's honor and has invited them to cut the ribbon."}
]
